Mic test 1, 2, 3. Mic test 1, 2, 3. I'm in the process
of conducting an interview with somebody dealing
with the assassination of John F. Kennedy. My name
is Eugene Sepulveda. Today is March the 12th,
1980. This is another volume test, just another
volume. Okay, but were you in the rank of a
detective or were you in the rank of a policeman?
Eight years as a detective, ten years as a
lieutenant detective.
OK. So could I have this again? If this is correct,
please correct me. Name's John B. Evans. You're 33
and a half years of the policeman, eight years as a
detective, and two years as a lieutenant
detective. Is that correct? OK. All in criminal
investigation bureau,
they call it. All right. Can you just kind of start
off like we started talking yesterday? Yeah. Have
you got that thing on? Yeah.
Okay. My name is John B. Evans. I am 64 years of age.
I've been born in 1916.
And I predicate what I am about to say
on the experience in the field of criminal
investigation
which had a tenure of in excess of 33 years in the
fifth largest city in the United States. Which
was? Houston, Texas.
Let me say that in my experience I have found
from the institution of the criminal
investigation all the way through the courts that
a necessary item for any human being old enough to
answer for his or her acts
must be that they would be sane at the time of the
commission of the act
and aware of the consequences in the event that
prosecution resulted as a punishment for such
acts. And the only exception
for adult sane human beings
or adult beings would have to be insanity, for
which they could not be prosecuted because of
their condition. They have no control over their
acts or are not conscious of what their acts might
result in.
From the time that the assassination of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy, President of the United
States of America in 1963
occurred in Dallas, Texas, I have had a theory from
a criminal investigation that
certain individuals had certain motives
which led to this assassination.
And I will begin with the individual whom I
consider to have the prime motive of personal gain
and prestige
as a result of this incident. And that would be At
that time, Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson,
whose motive
for personal gain and power and prestige would
have been Presidency of the United States, as it
was incumbent upon the Vice President, in the
event a President deceases while in office, to
assume the office of the President of the United
States.
From observation
of incidents a number of years prior to the
assassination concerning Mr. Johnson and some
other individuals and additional individuals
after the fact, of the assassination. Leads me to
suspect and I firmly believe that the other
individuals involved in that case were George
Parr, who was the
alleged kingpin of politics in South Texas,
namely Duval and Starr counties,
Lee Harvey Oswald, who was a former United States
Marine and who, reliable information tells me,
had received a dishonorable discharge from that
arm of the military service,
and Jack Ruby, who operated a series of
questionable
business establishments referred to ordinarily
as striptease joints in Dallas, Texas.
applying the basic rules of criminal
investigation wherein a motive is a necessary
item
when you reach the prosecution stage in any case
to obtain a conviction.
The
afore stated George Parr who was renowned to be a
very close friend to the aforesaid Lyndon Baines
Johnson over a long period of years,
was alleged by various investigative
organizations, including the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and other private citizens,
to have arranged so that at an election in a contest
for a state senatorship between Lyndon Baines
Johnson and Koch R. Stevenson,
rather early in Johnson's career as a politician,
that George Carr had arranged
for the election returns to be reported to the
election central in Dallas, Texas
after an election had been held on a Saturday until
sometime the following Wednesday, by which time
the most of the votes which had been reported in the
balance of the state had had time to be fairly well
canvassed before allowing the vote from Duval
County to be reported to the election central in
Dallas. And prior to the reporting of Duval County
vote,
Colt Stevenson had a slight lead in the race over
Lyndon Johnson, but Johnson would not concede the
election until all of the boxers in the state were
heard from, and that included Duval County. After
the votes were finally called in or reported by
mail or whatever means they were reported from
Duval County, Lyndon Johnson showed to have the
89-vote lead in the race for the Senator's job in
the statewide election.
And at that time, Colt Stevenson conceded the
election to Lyndon Baines Johnson, and Johnson
became a Senator of the state of Texas.
Some years later,
during the administration of Harry S. Truman as
President of the United States, it came to pass,
according to the news media's reports
concerning George Parr, that George Parr had been
federal court on income tax evasion or
falsification of his income tax report, and uh,
summarily tried and found guilty and assessed a
penalty of ten years in federal prison.
But after the jury had found par guilty, put the
case on appeal, and sometime later received a
presidential pardon from Harry S. Truman.
Harry Truman hailed from the state of Missouri.
And no mention has ever been made publicly by
anyone that Harry Truman and George Carr had ever
heard of each other, much less know each other. So I
presume that the case was that they were strangers
to each other, unknowns to each other. Okay, can I
stop you for a minute for a voice check? Sure. We're
now resuming. I'll just take a voice check and
we're going to continue. Yeah,
that's perfect. Now that
Lyndon Johnson was no longer in debt to George
Parr,
or the... ballot box packing, or stuffing, which
obtained him the senator's job, according to
reports
from the FBI and various citizens.
The contrary now held true that Parr
was indebted to Johnson for 10 years of his life.
In later years,
after Johnson had
worked his way up to Senate Majority Leader in the
Senate,
and the presidential election was to come about in
the year of 1960, and the Democratic was held at San
Francisco, California, wherein Johnson seeked
the nomination of the Democratic Party to run for
president
against Richard Milhous Nixon, who the
Republicans had nominated as their candidate.
Johnson failed to get the nomination and the
nomination was given to John Fitzgerald Kennedy
of Massachusetts.
And the
feeling of the party was that the state of Texas
would be a necessary item of support in order for
Kennedy to win the election. And therefore, the
position of candidacy for the vice presidency
was submitted to Johnson and he accepted it.
In 1958, I believe,
Mr. George Parr, who still politically ruled
Duval County,
managed to get his hands on some of the county's
school funds.
and was indicted by a state grand jury, tried in
state district court, and found guilty of felony
theft of school funds, assessed the then maximum
penalty for felony theft in the first defense of 10
years to be served in what was then known as the
TSPS, Texas State Prison
System. This case was put on appeal, and Parr
remained free on appeal bond
as the case wound its way through the Court of
Criminal Appeals and would have ultimately gone
to the state Supreme Court.
During the interim, the 1960 election, the
President of the United States occurred, and John
Fitzgerald Kennedy was elected President, and
Lyndon Baines Johnson Vice President of the
United States.
To the best of my recollection of what occurred,
The inauguration of Kennedy and Johnson was on or
about the 12th of January, 1961.
And sometime
between the middle and the end of March that same
year,
George Parr received presidential pardon from
John Fitzgerald Kennedy for his felony theft.
All of these matters would of necessity appear in
the official records of the government of the
United States and the state of Texas, official
court records and so forth.
pertaining to these convictions and pardons.
Time proceeded on, and during the summer of 1963,
the
Democrat Party in the state of Texas became split
into several different factions.
I believe there was about seven, all told.
And
Lyndon Johnson, because the year of 1964 was to be a
presidential election year again,
and it was reported in the news media that he had had
a talk with President Kennedy and at that time,
Governor John B. Conley, governor of the state of
Texas, to the effect that he and Johnson and the
president should come to Texas on what he termed a
fence-mending tour in order to get the
Democrat Party all back into one corral. These
terms are used among Texas ranchers pertaining to
cattle, but Texas politicians use the same
terminology pertaining to voters.
And at first, because of some incidents which had
occurred in Dallas, Texas,
when Adlai E. Stevenson, Sr., a senator from the
state of Illinois, and a retired general named
Walker, who lived in Dallas, Texas,
and several other rather prominent national
figures. The Democratic Party had attempted to
make speeches in Dallas, Texas, they received
vegetables and eggs some sticks and stones
directed at the speakers
instead of any applause or exception of their
speech
also uh Well, publicized at the time, General
Walker had sustained a bullet hole in the picture
window of his living room in his home in Dallas,
Texas, and sustained a near miss from the bullet
that put the hole there.
so that it was published
by the news media, newspapers, radio and
television. John Connolly had advised against
the President and the Vice President both coming
to Texas at the same time together going to various
municipalities in the state on this fence mending
tour because it was dangerous and especially the
attitude of the people in Dallas, Texas.
But somehow Johnson, according to reports in the
news media, persuaded the President and Governor
Connolly that he and the President would not
receive any such treatment even in Dallas.
So they decided to come to Dallas. And immediately
the news media began to publish stories about the
anticipated visit of the president and the vice
president, detailing when they would be in each
municipality that they were to visit.
And publishing in the newspapers prominently
displayed on the front pages the planned
motorcade route that they would follow through
each of these municipalities as they progressed
on their visitation. These diagrams were also
displayed on television quite frequently in each
of these cities.
And so that it would be common knowledge to the
people who might want to have a chance to see their
president and vice president and their governor
all simultaneously
be able to position themselves along these
motorcade routes for that purpose.
Now,
Prior to becoming governor of the state of Texas,
John B. Connolly served at the cabinet level
in Washington, D.C. in the capacity of Secretary
of the Navy. And during that tenure, Lee Harvey
Oswald received his dishonorable discharge from
the Marine Corps.
And it has been publicized considerably that
Oswald had written letters to John Connolly
requesting that he as Secretary of the Navy review
his case and consider an upgrade from
dishonorable to something more desirable in the
way of a discharge, and that Oswald was ignored by
Connolly.
During the summer and early fall, while all the
publicity was going around to the news media,
across the state, possibly across the country.
Pertaining to the visit of the president and vice
president and the governor of these
municipalities,
Lee Harvey Oswald somehow, in spite of the
reported sustenance of two homes, one in Fort
Worth and one in Dallas, without being employed at
all, managed to defray the expense of making a trip
to Mexico City.
And according to what has been published of the FBI
report and the Warren report, Oswald crossed the
Rio Grande River at a small village called Roma
which
is the connecting bridge between Starr County,
the county seat of which is Rio Grande City,
and
Old Mexico.
This was also alleged to have been the route that he
was traced in returning from Mexico City back to
Dallas. It was reported by both the FBI and the
Warren Commission that Oswald was traced to the
Cuban consulate in Mexico City as well as the
Russian consulate, but did not hold any
conversation, transact any business with anyone
at either of these locations
and return to Dallas, Texas. There has been no
mention made of any investigation which would
clarify whether or not Oswald contacted anybody
north of the border of Rio Grande, say in Starr
County or Duval County, en route to Mexico City is
backed
by either the FBI or the Warren Commission.
At the time this was all going on in 1963,
George Parr's nephew, Archer Parr, was county
sheriff in Starr County.
During this same period, Jack Ruby, the girly
nightclub operator,
for some mysterious reason, became exceedingly
friendly with a lot of members of the Dallas Police
Department, or at least this is what they and the
The FBI and the Warren Commission all concur. It's
a fact. And my experience as a municipal police
officer taught me long ago that this is highly
unusual for people in that type of business to do
anything regarding police except try to avoid it.
certainly not to be visiting the police station
and getting well acquainted with the high ranking
officials and all this.
Now,
it is my belief that
Lee Harvey Oswald was afforded an opportunity by
someone
to have an opportunity to take revenge against
John Connolly, not John Kennedy.
There has been nothing to indicate there be any
motivation whatsoever for Lee Harvey Oswald to
want to kill John Kennedy. But there is sufficient
in the ignoring of his plea for help pertaining to
his dishonorable discharge from John Connolly to
cause an individual with a temperament that the
people who claimed to know him said that Oswald had
to try to assassinate John Connolly. And John
Connolly was struck by some of the bullets that
were fired into the car in which he and Kennedy were
riding. Can I ask you a question? Was the motorcade
route that they traveled by the depository, was
that pre-planned or was that a last-minute
change? The... Chief police of the city of Dallas
at that time wrote a book, which is easily
available to anybody that wants it in almost any
bookstore and certainly any library,
stating that approximately 30 minutes before
departure time for the motorcade with President
Kennedy and Vice President Johnson Governor John
Connolly and their wives
had been changed around the locate, had been
changed approximately 30 minutes prior to
departure time so that it went by the book storage
building where Oswald was alleged to have shot the
president.
And he was never able to determine who ordered this
altering of the motorcade route.
But the order did come and the route was changed so
that the motorcade did pass by that building.
course
I have not mentioned the motive of Jack Ruby for any
part in the assassination
but I have known many people of many religious
organizations
and I have rather consistently found that there is
a still a great deal of animosity between Baptists
and Catholics and even more between Jews and
Catholics.
And Al Smith was rejected
by a Democrat state who elected to support Herbert
Clark Hoover much heavier than they did Al Smith in
1928 for the presidency of this country because Al
Smith was Catholic and no other reason was ever
given.
And that was the only Republican that was ever
supported the majority of the voters in the state
of Texas for the presidency since the state of
Texas has been in existence as a state.
The next one that ever was was Richard Nixon
and his
margin was not nearly as great as Hoover's.
Now the circumstances indicate to me that Jack
Ruby was in on the conspiracy
for the purpose of making sure that Lee Harvey
Oswald did not tell authorities too much in the
event he got caught and wasn't killed in the
process of what transpired.
And
that is exactly what he did. And he became a common
sight around the Dallas police station so that he
could gain access to Oswald sufficient to allow
him to hush him up by taking his life. And when the
transfer on the Sunday morning after the
assassination from the Dallas City Police
Station to the Dallas County Jail was attempted
Millions of people who were watching the
proceedings live on television from that
location
can attest to the fact that that is exactly what
Jack Ruby did.
And no one ever offered any motive for Jack Ruby's
actions other than that he just thought so much of
the President of the United States that he decided
to kill the man that was alleged to have killed us.
But this does not explain why a strip joint
operator prior to any assassination or any threat
of it or anything else on the president got himself
so familiarized around the Dallas police station
that he could gain access to Oswald in the first
place. I want to see how much tape we have left. OK.
Let's see. We have plenty of tape. Insofar as I have
been able to determine what has been released in
the way of even basic criminal investigative
efforts on the part of either the FBI or the Warren
Commission in the tracing of Oswald's
movements to Mexico City and back, and tracing the
rifle which was alleged to have been the murder
weapon
and which was reportedly left behind in the
bookstore's building to Lee Harvey Oswald
and making ballistics tests and checking this
weapon for fingerprints.
Other elements of criminal investigation appear
to me to be rather nil, and no one ever did offer
any true motivation on the part of Oswald having
taken the line for the president, or even
attempting the line for John Connors. The only
explanation that has ever been said that I've
heard is the possible links of KGB because of his
departure to Russia. And what is your opinion of
that? The belief was that Oswald appeared to be,
that Oswald, from these accounts, that Oswald was
linked to the Russian KGB and
This was supposed to have been determined by the
CIA prior to what transpired in Dallas, but no tail
was placed on Lee Harvey Oswald at that time to see
what he was doing during this locate proceeding
through the city of Dallas. Isn't it common I mean,
isn't it common for anybody who has ever had
anything to do with maybe even a threat to the
president or with leaks, with suspected leaks to
the KGB to have secret servicemen around them or at
least following them? That is, uh, not only
applies to the president, but all members of his
family, the vice president and all members of his
family. But I'm... And any... any serious
candidate for the presidency at all. This is
besides the bodyguards of the candidate or the
president themselves, but they do also, any
person that they believe will threaten it, isn't
it usual that they will go and that they will watch
that person? It is my understanding that
especially that during a time when there is a when
the president or any member of his family is known
to be in the proximity of any individual who might
be believed to be a foreign agent, a spy,
would certainly be placed under very close
surveillance, at least during that time. be a
special effort to keep them under closer than
normal surveillance by FBI, CIA, Secret Service,
all.
But I
noticed that after
Lyndon Johnson was deceased,
george parr got tangled up in another theft
business with case and was tried and found that
found guilty again and assessed prison term what
was this what was this other case can you say this
other case after linda johnson's death what was
this other case what was the i believe it was uh
something pertaining to the county treasury
funds in duval county at any rate they found him
dead where he according to the investigation
followed that victim of suicide since there was no
way of getting another presidential pardon
because johnson was no longer around
anybody to prevail upon any president then to give
him a pardon.
It's suicide. This further convinces me that
Johnson was engineering the two presidential
pardons that he didn't get.
Were you ever a patrolman in Starr County
yourself? Have I ever been there? Have you ever
been a patrolman in Starr County? Never been a
patrolman there. I was a soldier there. Okay, you
were a soldier there. At the time that Ruby Clifton
had gone to Mexico, is there any knowledge of him
having stopped? I have never heard anything
pertaining to that whatsoever.
Nothing stipulated that any effort was made on the
part of the FBI or the Warren Commission, either
one, to see if he did actually stop in Rio Grande
City or veer off through New Ball County or some
other place and make any contact
with anybody. anything published saying that he
did, and nothing published saying that he didn't.
But there was certainly every opportunity in the
world for him to have done so, because he was, had to
go directly through Rio Grande City. And wasn't
that the only, it wasn't that the only, the only
bridge, the only access to Mexico through that
route at that time? That is the, between, I
believe, Well, it was then, and I think still is,
the next place west or northwest on the Rio Grande
that you could cross on a bridge after you leave
Reynosa.
McAllen and Reynosa.
I don't think there was another bridge until you
got to Roma at that time. And only one highway
was... ran right through the middle of town, and
the railroad track ran parallel to it up to Rio
Grande City. And there, there was a Y formed in the
track so that the engine could turn around and go on
the other end of the train and go back to Mission.
And having been stationed at Fort Ringgold, which
was an Army post for the United States Cavalry, 1st
Cavalry Division. From August the 7th in 1940 to
around the middle of February in 1941,
I had an occasion to find out that that was the only
road through
there. You've said And I want to get it down. What is
your belief that why Johnson would accept the
nomination for vice president? Was it an ulterior
motive? Or why would Kennedy? It would appear to me
that since Johnson already held the position of
Senate Majority Leader, which was much more
powerful and prestigious than that of Vice
President and second only to the President
himself,
that Johnson's only hope to ever be President,
which he was seeking to be at the 1960 Democratic
Convention,
and made no bones about it, that his only chance
would be to become vice president and then the
president, whom he was serving with, would have
deceased and officer would have become incapable
of carrying on the duties of president.
It might also be noted that Judge Cyril T. Hughes
was a federal judge who for Ann Johnson as
president aboard Air Force One in Dallas, Texas.
Some, according to the news media, 30 minutes
after
the president had been pronounced dead,
and that she was
suggested so the story goes, by Johnson to be
nominated for the federal judgeship by the
president. And she was appointed and was
confirmed to the Senate. Okay. Is it you believe
that without Johnson's support in Texas, Kennedy
could have carried Texas? I always figured that
because he was a Catholic more than anything else,
and the great Baptist belt runs through the heart
of Texas and spreads almost to the borders of both
directions,
that he would have not had much better luck than Al
Smith did.
Al Smith did not have a run-in aid from Texas.
I want it to be known that this is my analysis of this
case, what I've been able to learn about it, what
has been published and printed by the news media,
and what has been released by the Warren
Commission.